---
zotero-key: QQHC832W
zt-attachments:
  - "4872"
title: "EgoScale: Scaling Dexterous Manipulation with Diverse Egocentric Human Data"
---
# EgoScale: Scaling Dexterous Manipulation with Diverse Egocentric Human Data

[Zotero](zotero://select/library/items/QQHC832W) [attachment](<file:///C:/Users/Administrator/Zotero/storage/24MMRCGD/Zheng%20%E7%AD%89%20-%202026%20-%20EgoScale%20Scaling%20Dexterous%20Manipulation%20with%20Diverse%20Egocentric%20Human%20Data.pdf>)

> [!note] Page 1
> 
> While prior work demonstrates human-to-robot transfer in constrained settings, it is unclear whether large-scale human data can support fine-grained, high-degree-of-freedom dexterous manipulation
> ^S7TCQLX9a24MMRCGDp1

> [!note] Page 3
> 
> 2. Method  We aim to learn representations from large-scale egocentric human video that are directly useful for dexterous robot control. This setting poses two core challenges. First, human demonstrations are noisy and lack paired robot actions. Second, human and robot embodiments differ substantially in kinematics and control interfaces. Our method (Figure 1) addresses these challenges through two design choices. We first pretrain on human data using explicit supervision of wrist motion and hand articulation extracted from egocentric videos, forcing the model to learn physically grounded action representations. We then introduce a small amount of aligned humanrobot data for mid-training, which grounds these representations in executable robot control without requiring large-scale paired demonstrations. Together, this two-stage design decouples data scale from embodiment alignment, enabling effective transfer from large human datasets to dexterous robot manipulation.
> ^YMDBK7IRa24MMRCGDp3

> [!note] Page 3
> 
> presented as a rigid transform Ht  c,i ∈ SE(3) in the camera frame, where i = 1 corresponds to the wrist. The wrist pose in the world frame is given by Wtw = Ttw←cHtc,1.  Wrist-level Arm Motion. To obtain motion comma
> ^XCAHSGFFa24MMRCGDp3
